# IoT-Project
# /*** Project Name: UTILIZING THE INTERNET OF THINGS TO DETECT HARMFUL GASES AND INFORM CONCERN AUTHORITIES ***/

The main theme of this project is climate change. As we see now a days environment is mainly affecting from E - waste and bio waste. These e - waste and bio waste releases toxic gases and other dangerous gases which affects environment and  which  later results in abnormal conditions in climate. Being a large part of the solid waste, e-waste contains numerous hazardous components in the form of halogenated compounds like polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA), polybrominated biphenyl (PBB), etc. along with other toxic materials which cause an adverse impact on the plants, microbes and human beings. 
Toxic releases from medical waste incineration comprising organic emissions such as polychlorinated dibenzo-dioxin/furan (PCDD/Fs) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), inorganic emissions and ashes containing toxic metals. Mainly these waste(bio waste, e - waste) components becomes more toxic due to time delay in their degradation.
So, this project is done to take an forward step to save the environment. In this project a system is presented  which senses the toxic gases  which is released by the pollutant components(e - waste and bio waste) and intimates the concerned authorities through call notification  using wifi module and arduino, buzzer also placed to make sound indicating problem and LCD display also introduced to represent emergency condition without any time delay. so, that the waste can be cleared or degraded before they releases harmful gases into the atmosphere.
# Key words: 1. Wi-fi module,2. Arduino UNO, 3.Buzzer, 4.LCD display, 5. IFTTT APP
